<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Comet Transformation</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">He stood a moment on the steps of <span class="setting">the
                    bank</span>, watching the <span class="litdev">human river</span>
            </span> that swirled down <span class="setting">Broadway</span>. Few noticed him. Few
            ever noticed him save in a way that stung.<span class="class">He was outside the
                world—nothing! as he said bitterly.</span> Bits of the words of the walkers came to
            him.</p>
        <p>The comet?</p>
        <p>The comet——</p>
        <p>Everybody was talking of it. Even the president, as he entered, <span class="class race"
                >smiled patronizingly at him</span>, and asked:</p>
        <p>Well, Jim, are you scared?</p>
        <p>No,said <span class="litdev">the <span class="litdev">messenger</span>
            </span> shortly.</p>
        <p>I thought we'd journeyed through the comet's tail once,broke in the junior clerk
            affably.</p>
        <p>Oh, that was Halley's,said the president; this is a new comet, quite a stranger, they
            say—wonderful, wonderful! I saw it last night. Oh, by the way, Jim, turning again to the
                <span class="litdev">messenger</span>, I want you to go down into the lower vaults
            today.</p>
        <p>The <span class="litdev">messenger</span> followed the president silently. Of course,
            they wanted him to go down to the lower vaults. <span class="class race">It was too
                dangerous for more valuable men</span>. He smiled grimly and listened.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev"> Eything of value has been moved out since the water began to seep
                in,</span> said the president; but we miss two volumes of old records. Suppose you
            nose around down there,—it isn't very pleasant, I suppose.</p>
        <p>Not very, said the <span class="litdev">messenger</span>, as he walked out.</p>
        <p>Well, Jim, <span class="scifi">the tail of the new comet hits us at <span class="setting"
                    >noon</span> this time</span>, said the vault clerk, as he passed over the keys;
            but the <span class="litdev">messenger</span> passed silently down the stairs. Down he
            went <span class="setting">beneath Broadway</span>, where <span class="litdev">the dim
                light filtered through the feet of hurrying men; down to the dark basement beneath;
                down into the blackness and silence beneath that lowest <span class="litdev"
                    >cavern</span>. <span class="litdev">Here with his dark lantern he groped in the
                    bowels of the earth, under the world.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>He drew a long breath as he threw back the last great iron door and stepped into the
            fetid slime within. <span class="litdev">
                <span class="race class">
                    <span class="emp">Here at last was peace</span>
                </span>, and he groped moodily forward.</span>
            <span class="litdev">A great rat leaped past him and <span class="litdev">cobwebs crept
                    across his face</span>.</span> He felt carefully around the room, shelf by
            shelf, on the muddied floor, and in crevice and corner. Nothing. Then he went back to
            the far end, where somehow the wall felt different. He sounded and pushed and pried.
            Nothing. He started away. Then something brought him back. He was sounding and working
            again when suddenly the whole black wall swung as on mighty hinges, and <span
                class="litdev">blackness yawned beyond</span>. He peered in; <span class="critThink"
                >it was evidently a secret vault—some hiding place of the old bank unknown in newer
                times.</span> He entered hesitatingly. It was a long, narrow room with shelves, and
            at the far end, an old iron chest. On a high shelf lay the two missing volumes of
            records, and others. He put them carefully aside and stepped to the chest. <span
                class="critThink emp">It was old, strong, and rusty.</span> He looked at the vast
            and old-fashioned lock and flashed his light on the hinges. They were deeply incrusted
            with rust. <span class="class race">Looking about, he found a bit of iron and began to
                pry. The rust had eaten a hundred years, and it had gone deep. Slowly, wearily, the
                old lid lifted, and with a last, low groan lay bare its treasure—and he saw the dull
                sheen of gold!</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">Boom!</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">A low, grinding, reverberating crash</span> struck upon his ear. He
            started up and looked about. All was black and still. He groped for his light and swung
            it about him. Then he knew! <span class="critThink">The great stone door had swung
                to.</span>
            <span class="class">He forgot the gold and looked death squarely in the face.</span>
            <span class="class">Then with a sigh he went methodically to work.</span> The cold sweat
            stood on his forehead; but he searched, pounded, pushed, and worked until after what
            seemed endless hours his hand struck a cold bit of metal and the great door swung again
            harshly on its hinges, and then, striking against something soft and heavy, stopped. He
            had just room to squeeze through. There lay the body of the vault clerk, cold and stiff.
            He stared at it, and then felt sick and nauseated. The air seemed unaccountably foul,
            with a strong, peculiar odor. <span class="litdev">He stepped forward, clutched at the
                air, and fell fainting across the corpse.</span>
        </p>
        <p>He awoke with a sense of horror, leaped from the body, and groped up the stairs, calling
            to the guard. The watchman sat as if asleep, with the gate swinging free. With one
            glance at him the <span class="litdev">messenger</span> hurried up to the sub-vault. In
            vain he called to the guards. His voice echoed and re-echoed weirdly. Up into the great
            basement he rushed. Here another guard lay prostrate on his face, cold and still. A fear
            arose in the <span class="litdev">messenger</span>'s heart. He dashed up to the cellar
            floor, up into the bank. <span class="litdev">The stillness of death lay everywhere and
                everywhere bowed, bent, and stretched the silent forms of men.</span> The <span
                class="litdev">messenger</span> paused and glanced about. He was not a man easily
            moved; but the sight was appalling! Robbery and murder, he whispered slowly to himself
            as he saw the twisted, oozing mouth of the president where he lay half-buried on his
            desk. Then a new thought seized him: <span class="dbt">
                <span class="class race">If they found him here alone—with all this money and all
                    these dead men—what would his life be worth?</span>
            </span> He glanced about, tiptoed cautiously to a side door, and again looked behind.
            Quietly he turned the latch and stepped out into <span class="setting">Wall
                Street</span>.</p>
        <p>How silent the street was! Not a soul was stirring, and yet it was <span class="setting"
                >high-noon</span>—<span class="setting">Wall Street</span>? <span class="setting"
                >Broadway</span>? He glanced almost wildly up and down, then across the street, and
            as he looked, a sickening horror froze in his limbs. With a choking cry of utter fright
            he lunged, leaned giddily against the cold building, and stared helplessly at the
            sight.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">In the great stone doorway <span class="litdev">a hundred men and
                    women and children lay crushed and twisted and jammed, forced into that great,
                    gaping doorway like refuse in a can</span>—as if in one wild, frantic rush to
                safety, they had rushed and ground themselves to death.</span> Slowly the <span
                class="litdev">messenger</span> crept along the walls, wetting his parched mouth and
            trying to comprehend, stilling the tremor in his limbs and the rising terror in his
            heart. <span class="critThink">He met a business man, silk—hatted and frock—coated, who
                had crept, too, along that smooth wall and stood now stone dead with wonder written
                on his lips.</span> The <span class="litdev">messenger</span> turned his eyes
            hastily away and sought the curb. A woman leaned wearily against the signpost, her head
            bowed motionless on her lace and silken bosom. Before her stood a street car, silent,
            and within—but the <span class="litdev">messenger</span> but glanced and hurried on. A
            grimy newsboy sat in the gutter with the last edition in his uplifted hand: Danger!
            screamed its black headlines. Warnings wired around the world. <span class="scifi">
                <span class="setting">The Comet's tail sweeps past us at noon.</span> Deadly gases
                expected. Close doors and windows. Seek the cellar.</span>
            <span class="critThink">The <span class="litdev">messenger</span> read and staggered
                on.</span> Far out from a window above, a girl lay with gasping face and sleevelets
            on her arms. On a store step sat a little, sweet—faced girl looking upward toward the
            skies, and in the carriage by her lay—but the <span class="litdev">messenger</span>
            looked no longer. The cords gave way—the terror burst in his veins, and with one great,
            gasping cry he sprang desperately forward and ran,—ran as only the frightened run,
            shrieking and fighting the air until with one last wail of pain he sank on the grass of
                <span class="setting">Madison Square</span> and lay prone and still.</p>
        <p>When he rose, he gave no glance at the still and silent forms on the benches, but, going
            to a fountain, bathed his face; then hiding himself in a corner away from <span
                class="litdev">the drama of death</span>, he quietly gripped himself and thought the
            thing through: <span class="scifi">The comet had swept the earth and this was the end.
                Was everybody dead? He must search and see.</span>
        </p>
        <p>He knew that he must steady himself and keep calm, or he would go insane. First he must
            go to a restaurant. He walked up <span class="setting">Fifth Avenue</span> to <span
                class="setting">a famous hostelry</span> and entered its gorgeous, ghost—haunted
            halls. He beat back the nausea, and, seizing a tray from dead hands, hurried into the
            street and ate ravenously, hiding to keep out the sights.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="race class">Yesterday, they would not have served me, he whispered</span>,
            as he forced the food down.</p>
        <p>Then he started up the street,—looking, peering, telephoning, ringing alarms; silent,
            silent all. Was nobody—nobody—he dared not think the thought and hurried on.</p>
        <p>Suddenly he stopped still. He had forgotten. My God! How could he have forgotten? <span
                class="litdev">He must rush to the subway—then he almost laughed. No—a car; if he
                could find a Ford.</span> He saw one. Gently he lifted off its burden, and took his
            place on the seat. He tested the throttle. There was gas. He glided off, shivering, and
            drove up the street. Everywhere stood, <span class="litdev">leaned, lounged, and
                lay</span> the dead, in grim and awful silence. On he ran past an automobile,
            wrecked and overturned; past another, filled with a gay party whose smiles yet lingered
            on their death—struck lips; on past crowds and groups of cars, pausing by dead
            policemen; at <span class="setting">42nd Street</span> he had to detour to Park Avenue
            to avoid the dead congestion. He came back on <span class="setting">Fifth Avenue at
                57th</span> and flew past <span class="setting">the Plaza</span> and by <span
                class="setting">the park</span> with its hushed babies and silent throng, until as
            he was rushing past <span class="setting">72nd Street</span> he heard a sharp cry, and
            saw a living form leaning wildly out an upper window. He gasped. <span class="litdev"
                >The human voice sounded in his ears like the voice of God.</span>
        </p>
        <p>Hello—hello—help, <span class="litdev">in God's name!</span> wailed the woman. <span
                class="litdev">There's a dead girl in here and a man and—and see yonder dead men
                lying in the street and dead horses</span>—<span class="litdev">for the love of God
                go and bring the officers</span>—— And <span class="gender">the words trailed off
                into hysterical tears.</span>
        </p>
        <p>He wheeled the car in a sudden circle, running over the still body of a child and leaping
            on the curb. <span class="setting">Then he rushed up the steps and tried the door and
                rang violently.</span> There was a long pause, but at last the heavy door swung
            back. They stared a moment in silence. <span class="race">She had not noticed before
                that he was a Negro. He had not thought of her as white.</span>
            <span class="class">
                <span class="litdev">She was a woman of perhaps twenty—five—rarely beautiful and
                    richly gowned, with darkly—golden hair, and jewels.</span>
            </span>
            <span class="class race">Yesterday, he thought with bitterness, she would scarcely have
                looked at him twice. <span class="litdev">He would have been dirt beneath her silken
                    feet.</span>
            </span> She stared at him. Of all the sorts of men she had pictured as coming to her
            rescue she had not dreamed of one like him. <span class="race class">Not that he was not
                human, but <span class="litdev">he dwelt in a world so far from hers</span>, so
                infinitely far, that he seldom even entered her thought.</span> Yet as she looked at
            him curiously he seemed quite commonplace and usual. <span class="litdev">He was a tall,
                dark <span class="class">workingman of the better class</span>, with a sensitive
                face trained to stolidity and a por man's clothes and hands.</span> His face was
            soft and slow and <span class="litdev">his manner at once cold and nervous, like fires
                long banked, but not out</span>.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="scifi">So a moment each paused and gauged the other; then <span
                    class="litdev">the thought of the dead world without rushed in</span> and they
                started toward each other.</span>
        </p>
        <p>What has happened? <span class="gender">she cried</span>. Tell me! Nothing stirs. All is
            silence! <span class="litdev">I see the dead strewn before my window as winnowed by the
                breath of God</span>,—and see—— <span class="class">
                <span class="litdev">She dragged him through great, silken hangings to where,
                    beneath the sheen of mahogany and silver, a little French maid lay stretched in
                    quiet, everlasting sleep, and near her a butler lay prone in his livery.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">
                <span class="litdev">The tears streamed down the woman's cheeks</span> and she clung
                to his arm until <span class="litdev">the perfume of her breath</span> swept his
                face and he felt the tremors racing through her body.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="critThink">
                <span class="class">I had been shut up in my dark room developing pictures of the
                    comet which I took last night; when I came out—I saw the dead!</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>What has happened? <span class="gender">she cried again</span>.</p>
        <p>He answered slowly:</p>
        <p>
            <span class="scifi">
                <span class="litdev">Something—comet or devil—swept across the earth</span> this
                morning and—many are dead!</span>
        </p>
        <p>Many? Very many?</p>
        <p>I have searched and I have seen no other living soul but you.</p>
        <p>She gasped and they stared at each other.</p>
        <p>My—father! she whispered.</p>
        <p>Where is he?</p>
        <p>He started for the office.</p>
        <p>Where is it?</p>
        <p>In the <span class="setting">Metropolitan Tower</span>.</p>
        <p>Leave a note for him here and come.</p>
        <p>Then he stopped.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="class race">No, he said firmly—first, we must go—to Harlem.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class race">Harlem! <span class="gender">she cried</span>. <span
                    class="cbt">Then she understood.</span>
            </span> She tapped her foot at first impatiently. She looked back and shuddered. Then
            she came resolutely down the steps.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">
                <span class="litdev">There's a swifter car in the garage in the court,</span> she
                said.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">I don't know how to drive it, he said.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">I do, <span class="dbt">she answered.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>In ten minutes they were flying to <span class="setting">Harlem</span> on the wind. <span
                class="litdev">The Stutz rose and raced like an airplane.</span> They took the turn
            at <span class="setting">110th Street</span> on two wheels and slipped with a shriek
            into 135th.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="setting">He was gone but a moment</span>. Then he returned, and his face
            was gray. She did not look, but said:</p>
        <p>You have lost—somebody?</p>
        <p>I have lost—everybody, he said, simply—unless——</p>
        <p>He ran back and was gone several minutes—hours they seemed to her.</p>
        <p>Everybody, he said, and <span class="critThink">he walked slowly back with <span
                    class="litdev">something film—like</span> in his hand which he stuffed into his
                pocket.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="cbt">I'm afraid I was selfish, he said.</span>
            <span class="race">But already the car was moving toward <span class="setting">the
                    park</span> among the dark and lined dead of <span class="setting"
                >Harlem</span>—the brown, still faces, the knotted hands, the homely garments, and
                the silence—the wild and haunting silence.</span> Out of the park, and down <span
                class="setting">Fifth Avenue</span> they whirled. In and out among the dead they
            slipped and quivered, needing no sound of bell or horn, until the great, square <span
                class="setting">Metropolitan Tower</span> hove in sight. Gently he laid the dead
            elevator boy aside; <span class="litdev">the car shot upward</span>. The door of the
            office stood open. <span class="litdev">On the threshold lay the stenographer, and,
                staring at her, sat the dead clerk.</span> The inner office was empty, but a note
            lay on the desk, folded and addressed but unsent:</p>
        <p>Dear Daughter:</p>
        <p>
            <span class="class">I've gone for a hundred mile spin in Fred's new Mercedes. Shall not
                be back before dinner. I'll bring Fred with me.</span>
        </p>
        <p>J.B.H.</p>
        <p>Come, <span class="gender">she cried</span> nervously. We must search the city.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="critThink">Up and down, over and across, back again—on went that ghostly
                search. Everywhere was silence and death—death and silence! They hunted from <span
                    class="setting">Madison Square</span> to <span class="setting">Spuyten
                    Duyvel</span>; they rushed across the <span class="setting">Williamsburg
                    Bridge</span>; they swept over <span class="setting">Brooklyn</span>; from <span
                    class="setting">the Battery</span> and <span class="setting">Morningside
                    Heights</span>
                <span class="litdev">they scanned the river</span>. Silence, silence everywhere, and
                no human sign. Haggard and bedraggled they puffed a third time slowly down <span
                    class="setting">Broadway</span>, under the broiling sun, and at last
                stopped.</span> He sniffed the air. An odor—a smell—and with the shifting breeze a
            sickening stench filled their nostrils and brought its awful warning. <span
                class="critThink">
                <span class="gender">The girl settled back helplessly in her seat.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">What can we do? <span class="gender">she cried</span>.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">It was his turn now to take the lead, and he did it quickly.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">The long distance telephone—the telegraph and the cable—night
                rockets and then—flight!</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender race">She looked at him now with strength and confidence. He did not
                look like men, as she had always pictured men; but he acted like one and she was
                content.</span> In fifteen minutes they were at the <span class="setting">central
                telephone exchange</span>. <span class="gender">As they came to the door he stepped
                quickly before her and pressed her gently back as he closed it. <span class="gender"
                    >She heard him moving to and fro, and knew his burdens—the poor, little burdens
                    he bore.</span> When she entered, he was alone in the room.</span>
            <span class="litdev">The grim switchboard flashed its metallic face in cryptic,
                sphinx—like immobility.</span>
            <span class="litdev">She seated herself on a stool and donned the bright earpiece. She
                looked at the mouthpiece. She had never looked at one so closely before. <span
                    class="litdev">It was wide and black, pimpled with usage; inert; dead; almost
                    sarcastic in its unfeeling curves</span>. It looked—she beat back the
                thought—but it looked,—it persisted in looking like—she turned her head and found
                herself alone.</span> One moment she was terrified; then she thanked him silently
            for his delicacy and turned resolutely, with a quick intaking of breath.</p>
        <p>Hello! <span class="scifi">she called in low tones. She was calling to the world. The
                world must answer. Would the world answer? Was the world——</span>
        </p>
        <p>Silence!</p>
        <p>She had spoken too low.</p>
        <p>Hello! <span class="gender">she cried</span>, full—voiced.</p>
        <p>She listened. Silence! Her heart beat quickly. <span class="gender">She cried</span> in
            clear, distinct, loud tones: Hello—hello—hello!</p>
        <p>What was that whirring? Surely—no—was it the click of a receiver?</p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">She bent close, she moved the pegs in the holes, and called and
                called, until her voice rose almost to a shriek, and her heart hammered.</span>
            <span class="litdev">It was as if she had heard the last flicker of creation, and the
                evil was silence.</span> Her voice dropped to a sob. <span class="gender">She sat
                stupidly staring into the black and sarcastic mouthpiece</span>, and the thought
            came again. <span class="critThink">Hope lay dead within her. Yes, the cable and the
                rockets remained; but the world</span>—she could not frame the thought or say the
            word. It was too mighty—too terrible! <span class="gender">She turned toward the door
                with a new fear in her heart. For the first time she seemed to realize that she was
                alone in the world with a stranger, <span class="race">with something more than a
                    stranger,—with <span class="scifi">a man alien in blood and culture—unknown,
                        perhaps unknowable</span>
                </span>.It was awful! She must escape—she must fly; he must not see her again. Who
                knew what awful thoughts—</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class gender">
                <span class="litdev">She gathered her silken skirts deftly about her young, smooth
                    limbs—listened, and glided into a sidehall.</span>
            </span> A moment she shrank back: the hall lay filled with dead women; then she leaped
            to the door and tore at it, with bleeding fingers, until it swung wide. She looked out.
            He was standing at the top of the alley,—silhouetted, tall and black, motionless. <span
                class="critThink emp">
                <span class="gender">Was he looking at her or away?</span>
            </span> She did not know—she did not care. She simply leaped and ran—ran until she found
            herself alone amid the dead and the tall ramparts of towering buildings.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">She stopped. She was alone. Alone! Alone on the streets—alone in
                the city—perhaps alone in the world! There crept in upon her the sense of
                deception—of creeping hands behind her back—of silent, moving things she could not
                see,—of voices hushed in fearsome conspiracy. <span class="cbt">She looked behind
                    and sideways, started at strange sounds and heard still stranger, until every
                    nerve within her stood sharp and quivering, stretched to scream at the barest
                    touch.</span> She whirled and flew back, <span class="gender">whimpering like a
                    child</span>, until she found that narrow alley again and the dark, silent
                figure silhouetted at the top. She stopped and rested; then she walked silently
                toward him, looked at him timidly; but he said nothing as he handed her into the
                car.</span> Her voice caught as she whispered:</p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender race">Not—that.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="emp">And <span class="gender race">he answered slowly: No—not that!</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>They climbed into the car. <span class="class race">She bent forward on the wheel and
                sobbed, with great, dry, quivering sobs, as they flew toward the <span
                    class="setting">cable office on the east side</span>, leaving <span
                    class="critThink">
                    <span class="litdev">the world of wealth and prosperity for the world of poverty
                        and work</span>. In the world behind them were death and silence, grave and
                    grim, almost cynical, but always decent; here it was hideous. It clothed itself
                    in every ghastly form of terror, struggle, hate, and suffering. It lay wreathed
                    in crime and squalor, greed and lust. Only in its dread and awful silence was it
                    like to death everywhere.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="cbt">
                <span class="litdev">Yet as the two, flying and alone, looked upon the horror of the
                    world, slowly, gradually, the sense of all—enveloping death deserted
                    them.</span> They seemed to move in a world silent and asleep,—not dead. <span
                    class="class race">They moved in quiet reverence, lest somehow they wake these
                    sleeping forms who had, at last, found peace.</span>
            </span>
            <span class="scifi">
                <span class="litdev">They moved in some solemn, world—wide Friedhof, above which
                    some mighty arm had waved its magic wand.</span>
            </span>
            <span class="litdev">All nature slept until—until, and quick with the same startling
                thought, they looked into each other's eyes—he, ashen, and she, crimson, with
                unspoken thought. To both, the vision of a mighty beauty—of vast, unspoken things,
                swelled in their souls; but they put it away.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">Great, dark coils of wire came up from the earth and down from the
                sun and entered this <span class="critThink">low lair of witchery</span>. The
                gathered lightnings of the world centered here, binding with beams of light the ends
                of the earth. The doors gaped on the gloom within. He paused on the
                threshold.</span>
        </p>
        <p>Do you know the code? she asked.</p>
        <p>I know the call for help—we used it formerly at the bank.</p>
        <p>She hardly heard. <span class="litdev">She heard the lapping of the waters far
                    below,—<span class="litdev">the dark and restless waters</span>—the cold and
                luring waters, as they called.</span> He stepped within. Slowly she walked to the
            wall, where <span class="litdev">the water called below</span>, and stood and waited.
            Long she waited, and he did not come. <span class="litdev">Then with a start she saw
                him, too, standing beside the black waters.</span> Slowly he removed his coat and
            stood there silently. <span class="cbt">She walked quickly to him and laid her hand on
                his arm. He did not start or look.</span>
            <span class="litdev">The waters lapped on in luring, deadly rhythm.</span> He pointed
            down to the waters, and said quietly:</p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">The world lies beneath the waters now—may I go?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class race gender">She looked into his stricken, tired face, and a great
                pity surged within her heart.</span> She answered in a voice clear and calm, No.</p>
        <p>Upward they turned toward life again, and <span class="gender">he seized the
            wheel</span>. The world was darkening to twilight, and a great, gray pall was falling
            mercifully and gently on the sleeping dead. <span class="gender">The ghastly glare of
                reality seemed replaced with the dream of some vast romance.</span>
            <span class="gender">The girl lay silently back, as the motor whizzed along, and looked
                half—consciously for <span class="litdev">the elf—queen to wave life into this dead
                    world again</span>.</span>
            <span class="gender">
                <span class="litdev">She forgot to wonder at the quickness with which he had learned
                    to drive her car.</span> It seemed natural.</span> And then as they whirled and
            swung into <span class="setting">Madison Square</span> and at the door of the <span
                class="setting">Metropolitan Tower</span>
            <span class="gender">she gave a low cry, and her eyes were great! <span class="litdev"
                    >Perhaps she had seen the elf—queen?</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender">The man led her to the elevator of the tower and deftly they
                ascended.</span> In her father's office they gathered rugs and chairs, and <span
                class="gender">he wrote a note and laid it on the desk</span>; then they ascended to
            the roof and <span class="gender">he made her comfortable</span>. For a while she rested
            and sank to dreamy somnolence, watching the worlds above and wondering. Below lay the
            dark shadows of the city and <span class="litdev">afar was the shining of the
                sea.</span>
            <span class="gender class">She glanced at him timidly as he set food before her and took
                a shawl and wound her in it</span>, <span class="gender class">touching her
                reverently, yet tenderly</span>. <span class="gender">She looked up at him with
                thankfulness in her eyes, eating what he served.</span> He watched the city. She
            watched him. <span class="race">
                <span class="scifi">He seemed very human,—very near now.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class">Have you had to work hard? she asked softly.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class">Always, he said.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class">I have always been idle, she said. I was rich.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class">I was poor, he almost echoed.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="class race">
                <span class="litdev">The rich and the poor are met together</span>, she
            began</span>, and he finished:</p>
        <p>
            <span class="dbt">
                <span class="class race">
                    <span class="litdev">The Lord is the Maker of them all.</span>
                </span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>Yes, she said slowly; and <span class="class race">how foolish our human distinctions
                seem—now</span>, looking down to the great dead city stretched below, swimming in
            unlightened shadows.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="race class">
                <span class="scifi">Yes—I was not—human, yesterday</span>, he said.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race class">She looked at him. And your people were not my people, she
                said</span>; but today—— She paused. <span class="gender race class">
                <span class="dbt">He was a man,—no more; but he was in some larger sense a
                    gentleman,—sensitive, kindly, chivalrous, everything save his hands and—his
                    face.</span> Yet yesterday——</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="critThink">
                <span class="litdev">
                    <span class="race class">Death, the leveler!</span>
                </span>
            </span> he muttered.</p>
        <p>And the revealer, she whispered gently, rising to her feet with great eyes. He turned
            away, and <span class="litdev">after fumbling a moment sent a rocket into the darkening
                air</span>. It arose, shrieked, and flew up, a slim path of light, and scattering
            its stars abroad, dropped on the city below. <span class="cbt">She scarcely noticed
                it.</span> A vision of the world had risen before her. <span
                class="race class gender">Slowly the mighty prophecy of her destiny overwhelmed her.
                Above the dead past hovered <span class="litdev">the Angel of Annunciation</span>.
                She was no mere woman. She was neither high nor low, white nor black, rich nor poor.
                She was primal woman; mighty mother of all men to come and Bride of Life. She looked
                upon the man beside her and forgot all else but his manhood, his strong, vigorous
                manhood—his sorrow and sacrifice. She saw him glorified. He was no longer a thing
                apart, a creature below, a strange outcast of another clime and blood, but her <span
                    class="litdev">Brother Humanity incarnate, Son of God and great All—Father of
                    the race to be</span>.</span>
        </p>
        <p>He did not glimpse the glory in her eyes, but stood looking outward toward the sea and
            sending rocket after rocket into the unanswering darkness. Dark—purple clouds lay banked
            and billowed in the west. Behind them and all around, the heavens glowed in dim, weird
            radiance that suffused the darkening world and made almost a minor music. Suddenly,
                <span class="litdev">as though gathered back in some vast hand</span>, <span
                class="litdev">the great cloud—curtain </span>fell away. Low on the horizon lay a
            long, white star—mystic, wonderful! <span class="litdev">And from it fled upward to the
                pole, like some wan bridal veil, a pale, wide sheet of flame that lighted all the
                world and dimmed the stars.</span>
        </p>
        <p>In fascinated silence the man gazed at the heavens and dropped his rockets to the floor.
            Memories of memories stirred to life in the dead recesses of his mind. <span
                class="race">
                <span class="litdev">The shackles seemed to rattle and fall from his soul</span>. Up
                from the crass and crushing and cringing of his caste leaped the <span
                    class="litdev">lone majesty of kings long dead</span>. He arose within the
                shadows, tall, straight, and stern, with power in his eyes and ghostly scepters
                hovering to his grasp. <span class="litdev">It was as though some mighty Pharaoh
                    lived again, or curled Assyrian lord</span>.</span> He turned and looked upon
            the lady, and found her gazing straight at him.</p>
        <p>Silently, immovably, they saw each other face to face—eye to eye. <span
                class="race class gender">Their souls lay naked to the night. It was not lust; it
                was not love—it was some vaster, mightier thing that needed neither touch of body
                nor thrill of soul. <span class="litdev">It was a thought divine</span>,
                splendid.</span>
        </p>
        <p>Slowly, noiselessly, they moved toward each other—the heavens above, the seas around, the
            city grim and dead below. <span class="race">He loomed from out the velvet shadows vast
                and dark.</span>
            <span class="race">Pearl—white and slender, she shone beneath the stars.</span>
            <span class="litdev">She stretched her jeweled hands abroad.</span> He lifted up his
            mighty arms, and they cried each to the other, almost with one voice, The world is
            dead.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="litdev">Long live the</span>——</p>
        <p>Honk! Honk! Hoarse and sharp the cry of a motor drifted clearly up from the silence
            below. They started backward with a cry and gazed upon each other with eyes that
            faltered and fell, with blood that boiled.</p>
        <p>Honk! Honk! Honk! Honk! came the mad cry again, and almost from their feet a rocket
            blazed into the air and scattered its stars upon them. <span class="gender">She covered
                her eyes with her hands, and her shoulders heaved.</span>
            <span class="class">He dropped and bowed, groped blindly on his knees about the
                floor.</span> A blue flame spluttered lazily after an age, and she heard the scream
            of an answering rocket as it flew.</p>
        <p>Then they stood still as death, looking to opposite ends of the earth.</p>
        <p>Clang—crash—clang!</p>
        <p>The roar and ring of swift elevators shooting upward from below made the great tower
            tremble. A murmur and babel of voices swept in upon the night. All over the once dead
            city the lights blinked, flickered, and flamed; and then with a sudden clanging of doors
            the entrance to the platform was filled with men, and one with white and flying hair
            rushed to the girl and lifted her to his breast. My daughter! he sobbed.</p>
        <p>Behind him hurried a younger, comelier man, carefully clad in motor costume, who bent
            above the girl with passionate solicitude and gazed into her staring eyes until they
            narrowed and dropped and her face flushed deeper and deeper crimson.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="critThink">Julia</span>, he whispered; my darling, I thought you were gone
            forever.</p>
        <p>She looked up at him with strange, searching eyes.</p>
        <p>Fred, she murmured, almost vaguely, is the world—gone?</p>
        <p>Only New York, he answered; it is terrible—awful! You know,—but you, how did you
            escape—how have you endured this horror? Are you well? Unharmed?</p>
        <p>Unharmed! she said.</p>
        <p>And this man here? he asked, encircling her drooping form with one arm and turning toward
                <span class="race">the Negro</span>. Suddenly he stiffened and his hand flew to his
            hip. Why! he snarled. <span class="race gender">It's—a—nigger—Julia! Has he—has he
                dared——</span>
        </p>
        <p>She lifted her head and looked at her late companion curiously and then dropped her eyes
            with a sigh.</p>
        <p>He has dared—all, to rescue me, she said quietly, and I—thank him—much. But she did not
            look at him again. As the couple turned away, the father drew a roll of bills from his
            pockets.</p>
        <p>Here, my good fellow, he said, thrusting the money into the man's hands, take
            that,—what's your name?</p>
        <p>
            <span class="race">Jim Davis,</span> came the answer, hollow—voiced.</p>
        <p>Well, Jim, I thank you. <span class="class">I've always liked your people.</span>
            <span class="class race">If you ever want a job, call on me.</span> And they were
            gone.</p>
        <p>The crowd poured up and out of the elevators, talking and whispering.</p>
        <p>Who was it?</p>
        <p>Are they alive?</p>
        <p>How many?</p>
        <p>Two!</p>
        <p>Who was saved?</p>
        <p>
            <span class="gender race">A white girl and a nigger—there she goes.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race">A nigger? Where is he? Let's lynch the damned——</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race gender">Shut up—he's all right—he saved her.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race gender">Saved hell! He had no business——</span>
        </p>
        <p>Here he comes.</p>
        <p>
            <span class="race">Into the glare of the electric lights the colored man moved slowly,
                with the eyes of those that walk and sleep.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race gender">Well, what do you think of that? cried a bystander; of all New
                York, just a white girl and a nigger!</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span class="race class">
                <span class="cbt">The colored man heard nothing.</span> He stood silently beneath
                the glare of the light, gazing at the money in his hand and shrinking as he
                gazed</span>; slowly he put his other hand into his pocket and brought out a baby's
            filmy cap, and gazed again. A woman mounted to the platform and looked about, shading
            her eyes. <span class="race gender class">
                <span class="critThink">She was brown, small, and toil—worn, and in one arm lay the
                    corpse of a dark baby.</span> The crowd parted and her eyes fell on the colored
                man; with a cry she tottered toward him.</span>
        </p>
        <p>Jim!</p>
        <p>
            <span class="critThink">He whirled and, with a sob of joy, caught her in his
                arms.</span>
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
