<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>About</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="combo.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="navmenu.html" -->
        <div id="aboutpg">
            <header>
                <h1>About Us</h1>
            </header>
            <nav>
                <ul id="aboutmenu">
                    <li>This Research</li>
                    <li>This Project</li>
                    <li>Credits</li>
                    <li>Citations</li>
                </ul>
            </nav>
            <div id="aboutbody">
                <h3>This Research</h3>
                <p>This project is a part of Samantha Watkin's Bachelor of Philosophy thesis and THINK Fellowship research regarding empathy education in high school literature.</p>
                <h3>This Project</h3>
                <p>This project is an independent study relating to the crosslisted course ENGLIT 1600 Computational Methods in the Humanities.</p>
                <h3>Credits</h3>
                <p>Thank you to Professor David Birnbaum in the Slavics Department and Dr. Geoffrey Glover in the English Literature Department for mentoring me on this and every project.</p>
                <h3>Citations</h3>
                <p>Chapman, Alexander L. “Dialectical Behavior Therapy: Current Indications and Unique Elements.” Psychiatry (Edgmont (Pa. : Township)), Matrix Medical Communications, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2963469/.</p>
                <p>Dalzell, Jordan. “The Creation of a CBT Rating Scale for a Content Analysis of Children’s Storybooks.” Palo Alto University.</p>
                <p>Mcculliss, Debbie, and David Chamberlain. “Bibliotherapy for Youth and Adolescents—School-Based Application and Research.” Journal of Poetry Therapy, vol. 26, no. 1, 2013, pp. 13–40., doi:10.1080/08893675.2013.764052.</p>
                <p>Mehrabian, Albert, and Norman Epstein. “Emotional Empathy Questionnaire.” PsycTESTS Dataset, 1972, doi:10.1037/t06852-000.</p>
                <p>Stallard, Paul, et al. “The Cognitive Behaviour Therapy Scale for Children and Young People (CBTS-CYP): Development and Psychometric Properties.” Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 42, no. 03, 2014, pp. 269–282., doi:10.1017/s135246581300115x.</p>
                <p>“What Is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy?” American Psychological Association, American Psychological Association, www.apa.org/ptsd-guideline/patients-and-families/cognitive-behavioral.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>