<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>The Comet</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="combo.css" />
        <script type="text/javascript" src="3_8.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body id="tale">
        <!--#include virtual="navmenu.html" -->
        <section id="page">
            <div id="aside">
                <div id="side">
                    <h1 id="title">The Comet</h1>
                    <h2>W.E.B. DuBois</h2>
                    <h4>Literaray Analysis</h4>
                    <p><label for="setting"><input type="checkbox" name="lit" id="setting"
                             />setting</label></p>
                    <p><label for="scifi"><input type="checkbox" name="lit" id="scifi" />sci-fi
                            tropes</label></p>
                    <p><label for="litdev"><input type="checkbox" name="lit" id="litdev" />literary
                            devices</label></p>
                    <p><label for="theme"><input type="checkbox" name="lit" id="theme"
                             />themes</label></p>
                    <h4>Critical Analysis</h4>
                    <p><label for="race"><input type="checkbox" name="axe" id="race"
                         />race</label></p>
                    <p><label for="class"><input type="checkbox" name="axe" id="class"
                             />class</label></p>
                    <p><label for="gender"><input type="checkbox" name="axe" id="gender"
                             />gender</label></p>
                    <p><label for="orientation"><input type="checkbox" name="axe" id="orientation"
                             />orientation</label></p>
                    <p><label for="ability"><input type="checkbox" name="axe" id="ability"
                             />ability</label></p>
                    <h4>Opportunities for Empathy</h4>
                    <p><label for="cbt"><input type="checkbox" name="emp" id="cbt" />CBT</label></p>
                    <p><label for="dbt"><input type="checkbox" name="emp" id="dbt" />DBT</label></p>
                    <p><label for="critThink"><input type="checkbox" name="emp" id="critThink"
                             />Critical Thinking</label></p>
                    <p><label for="empathy"><input type="checkbox" name="emp" id="empathy"
                             />Empathy</label></p>
                </div>
            </div>
            <section id="buttonswtext">
                <div id="buttons">
                    <div class="button" id="story">Text</div>
                    <div class="button" id="discussion">Discussion Plan</div>
                </div>
                <div id="wrapper">
                    <div id="storytext">
                        <p>He stood a moment on the steps of the bank, watching the human river that
                            swirled down Broadway. Few noticed him. Few ever noticed him save in a
                            way that stung. He was outside the world—"nothing!" as he said bitterly.
                            Bits of the words of the walkers came to him.</p>
                        <p>"The comet?"</p>
                        <p>"The comet——"</p>
                        <p>Everybody was talking of it. Even the president, as he entered, smiled
                            patronizingly at him, and asked:</p>
                        <p>"Well, Jim, are you scared?"</p>
                        <p>"No," said the messenger shortly.</p>
                        <p>"I thought we'd journeyed through the comet's tail once," broke in the
                            junior clerk affably.</p>
                        <p>"Oh, that was Halley's," said the president; "this is a new comet, quite
                            a stranger, they say—wonderful, wonderful! I saw it last night. Oh, by
                            the way, Jim," turning again to the messenger, "I want you to go down
                            into the lower vaults today."</p>
                        <p>The messenger followed the president silently. Of course, they wanted him
                            to go down to the lower vaults. It was too dangerous for more valuable
                            men. He smiled grimly and listened.</p>
                        <p>"Everything of value has been moved out since the water began to seep
                            in," said the president; "but we miss two volumes of old records.
                            Suppose you nose around down there,—it isn't very pleasant, I
                            suppose."</p>
                        <p>"Not very," said the messenger, as he walked out.</p>
                        <p>"Well, Jim, the tail of the new comet hits us at noon this time," said
                            the vault clerk, as he passed over the keys; but the messenger passed
                            silently down the stairs. Down he went beneath Broadway, where the dim
                            light filtered through the feet of hurrying men; down to the dark
                            basement beneath; down into the blackness and silence beneath that
                            lowest cavern. Here with his dark lantern he groped in the bowels of the
                            earth, under the world.</p>
                        <p>He drew a long breath as he threw back the last great iron door and
                            stepped into the fetid slime within. Here at last was peace, and he
                            groped moodily forward. A great rat leaped past him and cobwebs crept
                            across his face. He felt carefully around the room, shelf by shelf, on
                            the muddied floor, and in crevice and corner. Nothing. Then he went back
                            to the far end, where somehow the wall felt different. He sounded and
                            pushed and pried. Nothing. He started away. Then something brought him
                            back. He was sounding and working again when suddenly the whole black
                            wall swung as on mighty hinges, and blackness yawned beyond. He peered
                            in; it was evidently a secret vault—some hiding place of the old bank
                            unknown in newer times. He entered hesitatingly. It was a long, narrow
                            room with shelves, and at the far end, an old iron chest. On a high
                            shelf lay the two missing volumes of records, and others. He put them
                            carefully aside and stepped to the chest. It was old, strong, and rusty.
                            He looked at the vast and old-fashioned lock and flashed his light on
                            the hinges. They were deeply incrusted with rust. Looking about, he
                            found a bit of iron and began to pry. The rust had eaten a hundred
                            years, and it had gone deep. Slowly, wearily, the old lid lifted, and
                            with a last, low groan lay bare its treasure—and he saw the dull sheen
                            of gold!</p>
                        <p>"Boom!"</p>
                        <p>A low, grinding, reverberating crash struck upon his ear. He started up
                            and looked about. All was black and still. He groped for his light and
                            swung it about him. Then he knew! The great stone door had swung to. He
                            forgot the gold and looked death squarely in the face. Then with a sigh
                            he went methodically to work. The cold sweat stood on his forehead; but
                            he searched, pounded, pushed, and worked until after what seemed endless
                            hours his hand struck a cold bit of metal and the great door swung again
                            harshly on its hinges, and then, striking against something soft and
                            heavy, stopped. He had just room to squeeze through. There lay the body
                            of the vault clerk, cold and stiff. He stared at it, and then felt sick
                            and nauseated. The air seemed unaccountably foul, with a strong,
                            peculiar odor. He stepped forward, clutched at the air, and fell
                            fainting across the corpse.</p>
                        <p>He awoke with a sense of horror, leaped from the body, and groped up the
                            stairs, calling to the guard. The watchman sat as if asleep, with the
                            gate swinging free. With one glance at him the messenger hurried up to
                            the sub-vault. In vain he called to the guards. His voice echoed and
                            re-echoed weirdly. Up into the great basement he rushed. Here another
                            guard lay prostrate on his face, cold and still. A fear arose in the
                            messenger's heart. He dashed up to the cellar floor, up into the bank.
                            The stillness of death lay everywhere and everywhere bowed, bent, and
                            stretched the silent forms of men. The messenger paused and glanced
                            about. He was not a man easily moved; but the sight was appalling!
                            "Robbery and murder," he whispered slowly to himself as he saw the
                            twisted, oozing mouth of the president where he lay half-buried on his
                            desk. Then a new thought seized him: If they found him here alone—with
                            all this money and all these dead men—what would his life be worth? He
                            glanced about, tiptoed cautiously to a side door, and again looked
                            behind. Quietly he turned the latch and stepped out into Wall
                            Street.</p>
                        <p>How silent the street was! Not a soul was stirring, and yet it was
                            high-noon—Wall Street? Broadway? He glanced almost wildly up and down,
                            then across the street, and as he looked, a sickening horror froze in
                            his limbs. With a choking cry of utter fright he lunged, leaned giddily
                            against the cold building, and stared helplessly at the sight.</p>
                        <p>In the great stone doorway a hundred men and women and children lay
                            crushed and twisted and jammed, forced into that great, gaping doorway
                            like refuse in a can—as if in one wild, frantic rush to safety, they had
                            rushed and ground themselves to death. Slowly the messenger crept along
                            the walls, wetting his parched mouth and trying to comprehend, stilling
                            the tremor in his limbs and the rising terror in his heart. He met a
                            business man, silk-hatted and frock-coated, who had crept, too, along
                            that smooth wall and stood now stone dead with wonder written on his
                            lips. The messenger turned his eyes hastily away and sought the curb. A
                            woman leaned wearily against the signpost, her head bowed motionless on
                            her lace and silken bosom. Before her stood a street car, silent, and
                            within—but the messenger but glanced and hurried on. A grimy newsboy sat
                            in the gutter with the "last edition" in his uplifted hand: "Danger!"
                            screamed its black headlines. "Warnings wired around the world. The
                            Comet's tail sweeps past us at noon. Deadly gases expected. Close doors
                            and windows. Seek the cellar." The messenger read and staggered on. Far
                            out from a window above, a girl lay with gasping face and sleevelets on
                            her arms. On a store step sat a little, sweet-faced girl looking upward
                            toward the skies, and in the carriage by her lay—but the messenger
                            looked no longer. The cords gave way—the terror burst in his veins, and
                            with one great, gasping cry he sprang desperately forward and ran,—ran
                            as only the frightened run, shrieking and fighting the air until with
                            one last wail of pain he sank on the grass of Madison Square and lay
                            prone and still.</p>
                        <p>When he rose, he gave no glance at the still and silent forms on the
                            benches, but, going to a fountain, bathed his face; then hiding himself
                            in a corner away from the drama of death, he quietly gripped himself and
                            thought the thing through: The comet had swept the earth and this was
                            the end. Was everybody dead? He must search and see.</p>
                        <p>He knew that he must steady himself and keep calm, or he would go insane.
                            First he must go to a restaurant. He walked up Fifth Avenue to a famous
                            hostelry and entered its gorgeous, ghost-haunted halls. He beat back the
                            nausea, and, seizing a tray from dead hands, hurried into the street and
                            ate ravenously, hiding to keep out the sights.</p>
                        <p>"Yesterday, they would not have served me," he whispered, as he forced
                            the food down.</p>
                        <p>Then he started up the street,—looking, peering, telephoning, ringing
                            alarms; silent, silent all. Was nobody—nobody—he dared not think the
                            thought and hurried on.</p>
                        <p>Suddenly he stopped still. He had forgotten. My God! How could he have
                            forgotten? He must rush to the subway—then he almost laughed. No—a car;
                            if he could find a Ford. He saw one. Gently he lifted off its burden,
                            and took his place on the seat. He tested the throttle. There was gas.
                            He glided off, shivering, and drove up the street. Everywhere stood,
                            leaned, lounged, and lay the dead, in grim and awful silence. On he ran
                            past an automobile, wrecked and overturned; past another, filled with a
                            gay party whose smiles yet lingered on their death-struck lips; on past
                            crowds and groups of cars, pausing by dead policemen; at 42nd Street he
                            had to detour to Park Avenue to avoid the dead congestion. He came back
                            on Fifth Avenue at 57th and flew past the Plaza and by the park with its
                            hushed babies and silent throng, until as he was rushing past 72nd
                            Street he heard a sharp cry, and saw a living form leaning wildly out an
                            upper window. He gasped. The human voice sounded in his ears like the
                            voice of God.</p>
                        <p>"Hello—hello—help, in God's name!" wailed the woman. "There's a dead girl
                            in here and a man and—and see yonder dead men lying in the street and
                            dead horses—for the love of God go and bring the officers——" And the
                            words trailed off into hysterical tears.</p>
                        <p>He wheeled the car in a sudden circle, running over the still body of a
                            child and leaping on the curb. Then he rushed up the steps and tried the
                            door and rang violently. There was a long pause, but at last the heavy
                            door swung back. They stared a moment in silence. She had not noticed
                            before that he was a Negro. He had not thought of her as white. She was
                            a woman of perhaps twenty-five—rarely beautiful and richly gowned, with
                            darkly-golden hair, and jewels. Yesterday, he thought with bitterness,
                            she would scarcely have looked at him twice. He would have been dirt
                            beneath her silken feet. She stared at him. Of all the sorts of men she
                            had pictured as coming to her rescue she had not dreamed of one like
                            him. Not that he was not human, but he dwelt in a world so far from
                            hers, so infinitely far, that he seldom even entered her thought. Yet as
                            she looked at him curiously he seemed quite commonplace and usual. He
                            was a tall, dark workingman of the better class, with a sensitive face
                            trained to stolidity and a poor man's clothes and hands. His face was
                            soft and slow and his manner at once cold and nervous, like fires long
                            banked, but not out.</p>
                        <p>So a moment each paused and gauged the other; then the thought of the
                            dead world without rushed in and they started toward each other.</p>
                        <p>"What has happened?" she cried. "Tell me! Nothing stirs. All is silence!
                            I see the dead strewn before my window as winnowed by the breath of
                            God,—and see——" She dragged him through great, silken hangings to where,
                            beneath the sheen of mahogany and silver, a little French maid lay
                            stretched in quiet, everlasting sleep, and near her a butler lay prone
                            in his livery.</p>
                        <p>The tears streamed down the woman's cheeks and she clung to his arm until
                            the perfume of her breath swept his face and he felt the tremors racing
                            through her body.</p>
                        <p>"I had been shut up in my dark room developing pictures of the comet
                            which I took last night; when I came out—I saw the dead!</p>
                        <p>"What has happened?" she cried again.</p>
                        <p>He answered slowly:</p>
                        <p>"Something—comet or devil—swept across the earth this morning and—many
                            are dead!"</p>
                        <p>"Many? Very many?"</p>
                        <p>"I have searched and I have seen no other living soul but you."</p>
                        <p>She gasped and they stared at each other.</p>
                        <p>"My—father!" she whispered.</p>
                        <p>"Where is he?"</p>
                        <p>"He started for the office."</p>
                        <p>"Where is it?"</p>
                        <p>"In the Metropolitan Tower."</p>
                        <p>"Leave a note for him here and come."</p>
                        <p>Then he stopped.</p>
                        <p>"No," he said firmly—"first, we must go—to Harlem."</p>
                        <p>"Harlem!" she cried. Then she understood. She tapped her foot at first
                            impatiently. She looked back and shuddered. Then she came resolutely
                            down the steps.</p>
                        <p>"There's a swifter car in the garage in the court," she said.</p>
                        <p>"I don't know how to drive it," he said.</p>
                        <p>"I do," she answered.</p>
                        <p>In ten minutes they were flying to Harlem on the wind. The Stutz rose and
                            raced like an airplane. They took the turn at 110th Street on two wheels
                            and slipped with a shriek into 135th.</p>
                        <p>He was gone but a moment. Then he returned, and his face was gray. She
                            did not look, but said:</p>
                        <p>"You have lost—somebody?"</p>
                        <p>"I have lost—everybody," he said, simply—"unless——"</p>
                        <p>He ran back and was gone several minutes—hours they seemed to her.</p>
                        <p>"Everybody," he said, and he walked slowly back with something film-like
                            in his hand which he stuffed into his pocket.</p>
                        <p>"I'm afraid I was selfish," he said. But already the car was moving
                            toward the park among the dark and lined dead of Harlem—the brown, still
                            faces, the knotted hands, the homely garments, and the silence—the wild
                            and haunting silence. Out of the park, and down Fifth Avenue they
                            whirled. In and out among the dead they slipped and quivered, needing no
                            sound of bell or horn, until the great, square Metropolitan Tower hove
                            in sight. Gently he laid the dead elevator boy aside; the car shot
                            upward. The door of the office stood open. On the threshold lay the
                            stenographer, and, staring at her, sat the dead clerk. The inner office
                            was empty, but a note lay on the desk, folded and addressed but
                            unsent:</p>
                        <p>Dear Daughter:</p>
                        <p>I've gone for a hundred mile spin in Fred's new Mercedes. Shall not be
                            back before dinner. I'll bring Fred with me.</p>
                        <p>J.B.H.</p>
                        <p>"Come," she cried nervously. "We must search the city."</p>
                        <p>Up and down, over and across, back again—on went that ghostly search.
                            Everywhere was silence and death—death and silence! They hunted from
                            Madison Square to Spuyten Duyvel; they rushed across the Williamsburg
                            Bridge; they swept over Brooklyn; from the Battery and Morningside
                            Heights they scanned the river. Silence, silence everywhere, and no
                            human sign. Haggard and bedraggled they puffed a third time slowly down
                            Broadway, under the broiling sun, and at last stopped. He sniffed the
                            air. An odor—a smell—and with the shifting breeze a sickening stench
                            filled their nostrils and brought its awful warning. The girl settled
                            back helplessly in her seat.</p>
                        <p>"What can we do?" she cried.</p>
                        <p>It was his turn now to take the lead, and he did it quickly.</p>
                        <p>"The long distance telephone—the telegraph and the cable—night rockets
                            and then—flight!"</p>
                        <p>She looked at him now with strength and confidence. He did not look like
                            men, as she had always pictured men; but he acted like one and she was
                            content. In fifteen minutes they were at the central telephone exchange.
                            As they came to the door he stepped quickly before her and pressed her
                            gently back as he closed it. She heard him moving to and fro, and knew
                            his burdens—the poor, little burdens he bore. When she entered, he was
                            alone in the room. The grim switchboard flashed its metallic face in
                            cryptic, sphinx-like immobility. She seated herself on a stool and
                            donned the bright earpiece. She looked at the mouthpiece. She had never
                            looked at one so closely before. It was wide and black, pimpled with
                            usage; inert; dead; almost sarcastic in its unfeeling curves. It
                            looked—she beat back the thought—but it looked,—it persisted in looking
                            like—she turned her head and found herself alone. One moment she was
                            terrified; then she thanked him silently for his delicacy and turned
                            resolutely, with a quick intaking of breath.</p>
                        <p>"Hello!" she called in low tones. She was calling to the world. The world
                            must answer. Would the world answer? Was the world——</p>
                        <p>Silence!</p>
                        <p>She had spoken too low.</p>
                        <p>"Hello!" she cried, full-voiced.</p>
                        <p>She listened. Silence! Her heart beat quickly. She cried in clear,
                            distinct, loud tones: "Hello—hello—hello!"</p>
                        <p>What was that whirring? Surely—no—was it the click of a receiver?</p>
                        <p>She bent close, she moved the pegs in the holes, and called and called,
                            until her voice rose almost to a shriek, and her heart hammered. It was
                            as if she had heard the last flicker of creation, and the evil was
                            silence. Her voice dropped to a sob. She sat stupidly staring into the
                            black and sarcastic mouthpiece, and the thought came again. Hope lay
                            dead within her. Yes, the cable and the rockets remained; but the
                            world—she could not frame the thought or say the word. It was too
                            mighty—too terrible! She turned toward the door with a new fear in her
                            heart. For the first time she seemed to realize that she was alone in
                            the world with a stranger, with something more than a stranger,—with a
                            man alien in blood and culture—unknown, perhaps unknowable. It was
                            awful! She must escape—she must fly; he must not see her again. Who knew
                            what awful thoughts—</p>
                        <p>She gathered her silken skirts deftly about her young, smooth
                            limbs—listened, and glided into a sidehall. A moment she shrank back:
                            the hall lay filled with dead women; then she leaped to the door and
                            tore at it, with bleeding fingers, until it swung wide. She looked out.
                            He was standing at the top of the alley,—silhouetted, tall and black,
                            motionless. Was he looking at her or away? She did not know—she did not
                            care. She simply leaped and ran—ran until she found herself alone amid
                            the dead and the tall ramparts of towering buildings.</p>
                        <p>She stopped. She was alone. Alone! Alone on the streets—alone in the
                            city—perhaps alone in the world! There crept in upon her the sense of
                            deception—of creeping hands behind her back—of silent, moving things she
                            could not see,—of voices hushed in fearsome conspiracy. She looked
                            behind and sideways, started at strange sounds and heard still stranger,
                            until every nerve within her stood sharp and quivering, stretched to
                            scream at the barest touch. She whirled and flew back, whimpering like a
                            child, until she found that narrow alley again and the dark, silent
                            figure silhouetted at the top. She stopped and rested; then she walked
                            silently toward him, looked at him timidly; but he said nothing as he
                            handed her into the car. Her voice caught as she whispered:</p>
                        <p>"Not—that."</p>
                        <p>And he answered slowly: "No—not that!"</p>
                        <p>They climbed into the car. She bent forward on the wheel and sobbed, with
                            great, dry, quivering sobs, as they flew toward the cable office on the
                            east side, leaving the world of wealth and prosperity for the world of
                            poverty and work. In the world behind them were death and silence, grave
                            and grim, almost cynical, but always decent; here it was hideous. It
                            clothed itself in every ghastly form of terror, struggle, hate, and
                            suffering. It lay wreathed in crime and squalor, greed and lust. Only in
                            its dread and awful silence was it like to death everywhere.</p>
                        <p>Yet as the two, flying and alone, looked upon the horror of the world,
                            slowly, gradually, the sense of all-enveloping death deserted them. They
                            seemed to move in a world silent and asleep,—not dead. They moved in
                            quiet reverence, lest somehow they wake these sleeping forms who had, at
                            last, found peace. They moved in some solemn, world-wide Friedhof, above
                            which some mighty arm had waved its magic wand. All nature slept
                            until—until, and quick with the same startling thought, they looked into
                            each other's eyes—he, ashen, and she, crimson, with unspoken thought. To
                            both, the vision of a mighty beauty—of vast, unspoken things, swelled in
                            their souls; but they put it away.</p>
                        <p>Great, dark coils of wire came up from the earth and down from the sun
                            and entered this low lair of witchery. The gathered lightnings of the
                            world centered here, binding with beams of light the ends of the earth.
                            The doors gaped on the gloom within. He paused on the threshold.</p>
                        <p>"Do you know the code?" she asked.</p>
                        <p>"I know the call for help—we used it formerly at the bank."</p>
                        <p>She hardly heard. She heard the lapping of the waters far below,—the dark
                            and restless waters—the cold and luring waters, as they called. He
                            stepped within. Slowly she walked to the wall, where the water called
                            below, and stood and waited. Long she waited, and he did not come. Then
                            with a start she saw him, too, standing beside the black waters. Slowly
                            he removed his coat and stood there silently. She walked quickly to him
                            and laid her hand on his arm. He did not start or look. The waters
                            lapped on in luring, deadly rhythm. He pointed down to the waters, and
                            said quietly:</p>
                        <p>"The world lies beneath the waters now—may I go?"</p>
                        <p>She looked into his stricken, tired face, and a great pity surged within
                            her heart. She answered in a voice clear and calm, "No."</p>
                        <p>Upward they turned toward life again, and he seized the wheel. The world
                            was darkening to twilight, and a great, gray pall was falling mercifully
                            and gently on the sleeping dead. The ghastly glare of reality seemed
                            replaced with the dream of some vast romance. The girl lay silently
                            back, as the motor whizzed along, and looked half-consciously for the
                            elf-queen to wave life into this dead world again. She forgot to wonder
                            at the quickness with which he had learned to drive her car. It seemed
                            natural. And then as they whirled and swung into Madison Square and at
                            the door of the Metropolitan Tower she gave a low cry, and her eyes were
                            great! Perhaps she had seen the elf-queen?</p>
                        <p>The man led her to the elevator of the tower and deftly they ascended. In
                            her father's office they gathered rugs and chairs, and he wrote a note
                            and laid it on the desk; then they ascended to the roof and he made her
                            comfortable. For a while she rested and sank to dreamy somnolence,
                            watching the worlds above and wondering. Below lay the dark shadows of
                            the city and afar was the shining of the sea. She glanced at him timidly
                            as he set food before her and took a shawl and wound her in it, touching
                            her reverently, yet tenderly. She looked up at him with thankfulness in
                            her eyes, eating what he served. He watched the city. She watched him.
                            He seemed very human,—very near now.</p>
                        <p>"Have you had to work hard?" she asked softly.</p>
                        <p>"Always," he said.</p>
                        <p>"I have always been idle," she said. "I was rich."</p>
                        <p>"I was poor," he almost echoed.</p>
                        <p>"The rich and the poor are met together," she began, and he finished:</p>
                        <p>"The Lord is the Maker of them all."</p>
                        <p>"Yes," she said slowly; "and how foolish our human distinctions
                            seem—now," looking down to the great dead city stretched below, swimming
                            in unlightened shadows.</p>
                        <p>"Yes—I was not—human, yesterday," he said.</p>
                        <p>She looked at him. "And your people were not my people," she said; "but
                            today——" She paused. He was a man,—no more; but he was in some larger
                            sense a gentleman,—sensitive, kindly, chivalrous, everything save his
                            hands and—his face. Yet yesterday——</p>
                        <p>"Death, the leveler!" he muttered.</p>
                        <p>"And the revealer," she whispered gently, rising to her feet with great
                            eyes. He turned away, and after fumbling a moment sent a rocket into the
                            darkening air. It arose, shrieked, and flew up, a slim path of light,
                            and scattering its stars abroad, dropped on the city below. She scarcely
                            noticed it. A vision of the world had risen before her. Slowly the
                            mighty prophecy of her destiny overwhelmed her. Above the dead past
                            hovered the Angel of Annunciation. She was no mere woman. She was
                            neither high nor low, white nor black, rich nor poor. She was primal
                            woman; mighty mother of all men to come and Bride of Life. She looked
                            upon the man beside her and forgot all else but his manhood, his strong,
                            vigorous manhood—his sorrow and sacrifice. She saw him glorified. He was
                            no longer a thing apart, a creature below, a strange outcast of another
                            clime and blood, but her Brother Humanity incarnate, Son of God and
                            great All-Father of the race to be.</p>
                        <p>He did not glimpse the glory in her eyes, but stood looking outward
                            toward the sea and sending rocket after rocket into the unanswering
                            darkness. Dark-purple clouds lay banked and billowed in the west. Behind
                            them and all around, the heavens glowed in dim, weird radiance that
                            suffused the darkening world and made almost a minor music. Suddenly, as
                            though gathered back in some vast hand, the great cloud-curtain fell
                            away. Low on the horizon lay a long, white star—mystic, wonderful! And
                            from it fled upward to the pole, like some wan bridal veil, a pale, wide
                            sheet of flame that lighted all the world and dimmed the stars.</p>
                        <p>In fascinated silence the man gazed at the heavens and dropped his
                            rockets to the floor. Memories of memories stirred to life in the dead
                            recesses of his mind. The shackles seemed to rattle and fall from his
                            soul. Up from the crass and crushing and cringing of his caste leaped
                            the lone majesty of kings long dead. He arose within the shadows, tall,
                            straight, and stern, with power in his eyes and ghostly scepters
                            hovering to his grasp. It was as though some mighty Pharaoh lived again,
                            or curled Assyrian lord. He turned and looked upon the lady, and found
                            her gazing straight at him.</p>
                        <p>Silently, immovably, they saw each other face to face—eye to eye. Their
                            souls lay naked to the night. It was not lust; it was not love—it was
                            some vaster, mightier thing that needed neither touch of body nor thrill
                            of soul. It was a thought divine, splendid.</p>
                        <p>Slowly, noiselessly, they moved toward each other—the heavens above, the
                            seas around, the city grim and dead below. He loomed from out the velvet
                            shadows vast and dark. Pearl-white and slender, she shone beneath the
                            stars. She stretched her jeweled hands abroad. He lifted up his mighty
                            arms, and they cried each to the other, almost with one voice, "The
                            world is dead."</p>
                        <p>"Long live the——"</p>
                        <p>"Honk! Honk!" Hoarse and sharp the cry of a motor drifted clearly up from
                            the silence below. They started backward with a cry and gazed upon each
                            other with eyes that faltered and fell, with blood that boiled.</p>
                        <p>"Honk! Honk! Honk! Honk!" came the mad cry again, and almost from their
                            feet a rocket blazed into the air and scattered its stars upon them. She
                            covered her eyes with her hands, and her shoulders heaved. He dropped
                            and bowed, groped blindly on his knees about the floor. A blue flame
                            spluttered lazily after an age, and she heard the scream of an answering
                            rocket as it flew.</p>
                        <p>Then they stood still as death, looking to opposite ends of the
                            earth.</p>
                        <p>"Clang—crash—clang!"</p>
                        <p>The roar and ring of swift elevators shooting upward from below made the
                            great tower tremble. A murmur and babel of voices swept in upon the
                            night. All over the once dead city the lights blinked, flickered, and
                            flamed; and then with a sudden clanging of doors the entrance to the
                            platform was filled with men, and one with white and flying hair rushed
                            to the girl and lifted her to his breast. "My daughter!" he sobbed.</p>
                        <p>Behind him hurried a younger, comelier man, carefully clad in motor
                            costume, who bent above the girl with passionate solicitude and gazed
                            into her staring eyes until they narrowed and dropped and her face
                            flushed deeper and deeper crimson.</p>
                        <p>"Julia," he whispered; "my darling, I thought you were gone forever."</p>
                        <p>She looked up at him with strange, searching eyes.</p>
                        <p>"Fred," she murmured, almost vaguely, "is the world—gone?"</p>
                        <p>"Only New York," he answered; "it is terrible—awful! You know,—but you,
                            how did you escape—how have you endured this horror? Are you well?
                            Unharmed?"</p>
                        <p>"Unharmed!" she said.</p>
                        <p>"And this man here?" he asked, encircling her drooping form with one arm
                            and turning toward the Negro. Suddenly he stiffened and his hand flew to
                            his hip. "Why!" he snarled. "It's—a—nigger—Julia! Has he—has he
                            dared——"</p>
                        <p>She lifted her head and looked at her late companion curiously and then
                            dropped her eyes with a sigh.</p>
                        <p>"He has dared—all, to rescue me," she said quietly, "and I—thank
                            him—much." But she did not look at him again. As the couple turned away,
                            the father drew a roll of bills from his pockets.</p>
                        <p>"Here, my good fellow," he said, thrusting the money into the man's
                            hands, "take that,—what's your name?"</p>
                        <p>"Jim Davis," came the answer, hollow-voiced.</p>
                        <p>"Well, Jim, I thank you. I've always liked your people. If you ever want
                            a job, call on me." And they were gone.</p>
                        <p>The crowd poured up and out of the elevators, talking and whispering.</p>
                        <p>"Who was it?"</p>
                        <p>"Are they alive?"</p>
                        <p>"How many?"</p>
                        <p>"Two!"</p>
                        <p>"Who was saved?"</p>
                        <p>"A white girl and a nigger—there she goes."</p>
                        <p>"A nigger? Where is he? Let's lynch the damned——"</p>
                        <p>"Shut up—he's all right-he saved her."</p>
                        <p>"Saved hell! He had no business——"</p>
                        <p>"Here he comes."</p>
                        <p>Into the glare of the electric lights the colored man moved slowly, with
                            the eyes of those that walk and sleep.</p>
                        <p>"Well, what do you think of that?" cried a bystander; "of all New York,
                            just a white girl and a nigger!"</p>
                        <p>The colored man heard nothing. He stood silently beneath the glare of the
                            light, gazing at the money in his hand and shrinking as he gazed; slowly
                            he put his other hand into his pocket and brought out a baby's filmy
                            cap, and gazed again. A woman mounted to the platform and looked about,
                            shading her eyes. She was brown, small, and toil-worn, and in one arm
                            lay the corpse of a dark baby. The crowd parted and her eyes fell on the
                            colored man; with a cry she tottered toward him.</p>
                        <p>"Jim!"</p>
                        <p>He whirled and, with a sob of joy, caught her in his arms.</p>
                    </div>
                    <div id="discussiontext">
                        <h3>Organized by Topic</h3>
                        <ul>
                            <li><h3>CBT</h3>
                                <ul>
                                    <li>What is Julia thinking in this moment? What does she
                                        realize? What does her subsequent behavior reflect on
                                        her?</li>
                                    <li>In your opinion, was Jim selfish?</li>
                                    <li>Put yourself in Julia's shoes. What are her options in this
                                        scene? Which option would you choose and why?</li>
                                    <li>Why do Julia and Jim's mentalities shift from viewing the
                                        world as dead to viewing the world as sleeping?</li>
                                    <li>Julia first felt called by the waters, but it was Jim who
                                        asked to go. How does this contribute to their character
                                        development?</li>
                                    <li>Previously, Julia had thought her hope had died, regardless
                                        of the rockets. Now she has new hope. What inspired it?</li>
                                    <li>What traits humanize Jim? What is said to alienate him?</li>
                                </ul>
                            </li>
                            <li><h3>DBT</h3>
                                <ul>
                                    <li>Put yourself in Jim's shoes. If you were in this situation
                                        what would you think? What would you do?</li>
                                    <li>Consider the choise of language in these three lines. What
                                        does it mean that Julia answered a question that was not
                                        asked? What assumptions does Jim make?</li>
                                    <li>There is religious imagery throughout the story; here the
                                        characters quote Proverbs 22:2. Is religion a force of
                                        equality in this story? If so, how? If not, what is it's
                                        function?</li>
                                    <li>What is the distinction between a man and a gentleman? Which
                                        traits do the other male characters in the story
                                        embody?</li>
                                </ul>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <h3>Empathy</h3>
                                <ul>
                                    <li>Imagine Jim's world that this is where he finds peace.
                                        Compare and contrast it to your own.</li>
                                    <li>She had a very real concern, one that women experience
                                        daily, that Jim hadn't even considered. What concerns are
                                        unique to each character and how has the end of society
                                        changed those concerns?</li>
                                </ul>
                            </li>
                            <li><h3>Critical Thinking</h3>
                                <ul>
                                    <li>Why is there a secret vault and what does the passage of
                                        time signify? Why is it meaningful that he found a
                                        vault?</li>
                                    <li>What would have happened if the stone door hadn't sealed Jim
                                        into the anex?</li>
                                    <li>With the information you have so far, make an educated guess
                                        as to what happened while Jim was in the cellar.</li>
                                    <li>Discuss the irony in this scene. What do you take away from
                                        it? What did the author intend for the reader to understand
                                        about society based on this scene?</li>
                                    <li>Compare and contrast the spaces that protected Jim and Julia
                                        from the comet respectively. What do they say about the
                                        characters?</li>
                                    <li>What do you think Jim went back to check? What do you think
                                        he brought back?</li>
                                    <li>What is the importance of place in this text?</li>
                                    <li>Consider the language applied to Julia: how she often cries
                                        out or behaves helplessly. What is DuBois trying to say
                                        about her character?</li>
                                    <li>How does technology provide hope in this story? With the
                                        antagonist being a force of nature, does this story conform
                                        or subvert genre standards in it's use of technology</li>
                                    <li>What is this paragraph trying to say? What is the author
                                        trying to say? Compare and contrast how death is portrayed
                                        in relation to wealth throughout the text.</li>
                                    <li>Why is the cable office viewed as a low lair of
                                        witchery?</li>
                                    <li>What does it say about Jim that he is able to make this
                                        allusion to a poem from 1659? What is DuBois trying to tell
                                        the reader?</li>
                                    <li>Why does Julia's name first appear so late in the
                                        story?</li>
                                    <li>What does the symbol of the baby represent?</li>
                                    <li>Society is reintroduced. Julia's community returns. What is
                                        the function of having Jim's community also return?</li>
                                </ul></li>
                        </ul>
                        <hr />
                        <h3>In Story Order</h3>
                        <ul>
                            <li>Imagine Jim's world that this is where he finds peace. Compare and
                                contrast it to your own.<p>"Here at last was peace"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Why is there a secret vault and what does the passage of time
                                signify? Why is it meaningful that he found a vault?<p>"it was
                                    evidently a secret vault—some hiding place of the old bank
                                    unknown in newer times."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What does the chest represent? What would you do in Jim's situation
                                if you found a chest of gold?<p>"It was old, strong, and rusty."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What would have happened if the stone door hadn't sealed Jim into
                                the anex?<p>"The great stone door had swung to."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Put yourself in Jim's shoes. If you were in this situation what
                                would you think? What would you do?<p>"If they found him here
                                    alone—with all this money and all these dead men—what would his
                                    life be worth?"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>With the information you have so far, make an educated guess as to
                                what happened while Jim was in the cellar.<p>"He met a business man,
                                    silk—hatted and frock—coated, who had crept, too, along that
                                    smooth wall and stood now stone dead with wonder written on his
                                    lips."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Discuss the irony in this scene. What do you take away from it? What
                                did the author intend for the reader to understand about society
                                based on this scene?<p>"The messenger read and staggered on."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Compare and contrast the spaces that protected Jim and Julia from
                                the comet respectively. What do they say about the characters?<p>"I
                                    had been shut up in my dark room developing pictures of the
                                    comet which I took last night; when I came out—I saw the
                                    dead!"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What is Julia thinking in this moment? What does she realize? What
                                does her subsequent behavior reflect on her?<p>"Then she
                                    understood."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Consider the choise of language in these three lines. What does it
                                mean that Julia answered a question that was not asked? What
                                assumptions does Jim make?<p>"she answered."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What do you think Jim went back to check? What do you think he
                                brought back?<p>"he walked slowly back with something film—like in
                                    his hand which he stuffed into his pocket."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>In your opinion, was Jim selfish?<p>"I'm afraid I was selfish, he
                                    said."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What is the importance of place in this text?<p>"Up and down, over
                                    and across, back again—on went that ghostly search. Everywhere
                                    was silence and death—death and silence! They hunted from
                                    Madison Square to Spuyten Duyvel; they rushed across the
                                    Williamsburg Bridge; they swept over Brooklyn; from the Battery
                                    and Morningside Heights they scanned the river. Silence, silence
                                    everywhere, and no human sign. Haggard and bedraggled they
                                    puffed a third time slowly down Broadway, under the broiling
                                    sun, and at last stopped."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Consider the language applied to Julia: how she often cries out or
                                behaves helplessly. What is DuBois trying to say about her
                                    character?<p>"The girl settled back helplessly in her seat."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>How does technology provide hope in this story? With the antagonist
                                being a force of nature, does this story conform or subvert genre
                                standards in it's use of technology<p>"Hope lay dead within her.
                                    Yes, the cable and the rockets remained; but the world"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What is the power of the male gaze and male presence in this
                                    scene?<p>"Was he looking at her or away?"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Put yourself in Julia's shoes. What are her options in this scene?
                                Which option would you choose and why?<p>"She looked behind and
                                    sideways, started at strange sounds and heard still stranger,
                                    until every nerve within her stood sharp and quivering,
                                    stretched to scream at the barest touch."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>She had a very real concern, one that women experience daily, that
                                Jim hadn't even considered. What concerns are unique to each
                                character and how has the end of society changed those
                                    concerns?<p>"And he answered slowly: No—not that!"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What is this paragraph trying to say? What is the author trying to
                                say? Compare and contrast how death is portrayed in relation to
                                wealth throughout the text.<p>"the world of wealth and prosperity
                                    for the world of poverty and work. In the world behind them were
                                    death and silence, grave and grim, almost cynical, but always
                                    decent; here it was hideous. It clothed itself in every ghastly
                                    form of terror, struggle, hate, and suffering. It lay wreathed
                                    in crime and squalor, greed and lust. Only in its dread and
                                    awful silence was it like to death everywhere."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Why do Julia and Jim's mentalities shift from viewing the world as
                                dead to viewing the world as sleeping?<p>"Yet as the two, flying and
                                    alone, looked upon the horror of the world, slowly, gradually,
                                    the sense of all—enveloping death deserted them. They seemed to
                                    move in a world silent and asleep,—not dead. They moved in quiet
                                    reverence, lest somehow they wake these sleeping forms who had,
                                    at last, found peace."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Why is the cable office viewed as a low lair of witchery?<p>"low
                                    lair of witchery"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Julia first felt called by the waters, but it was Jim who asked to
                                go. How does this contribute to their character development?<p>"She
                                    walked quickly to him and laid her hand on his arm. He did not
                                    start or look."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>There is religious imagery throughout the story; here the characters
                                quote Proverbs 22:2. Is religion a force of equality in this story?
                                If so, how? If not, what is it's function?<p>"The Lord is the Maker
                                    of them all."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What is the distinction between a man and a gentleman? Which traits
                                do the other male characters in the story embody?<p>"He was a
                                    man,—no more; but he was in some larger sense a
                                    gentleman,—sensitive, kindly, chivalrous, everything save his
                                    hands and—his face."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What does it say about Jim that he is able to make this allusion to
                                a poem from 1659? What is DuBois trying to tell the
                                    reader?<p>"Death, the leveler!"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Previously, Julia had thought her hope had died, regardless of the
                                rockets. Now she has new hope. What inspired it?<p>"She scarcely
                                    noticed it."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Why does Julia's name first appear so late in the
                                    story?<p>"Julia"</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What traits humanize Jim? What is said to alienate him?<p>"The
                                    colored man heard nothing."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>What does the symbol of the baby represent?<p>"She was brown, small,
                                    and toil—worn, and in one arm lay the corpse of a dark
                                    baby."</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>Society is reintroduced. Julia's community returns. What is the
                                function of having Jim's community also return?<p>"He whirled and,
                                    with a sob of joy, caught her in his arms."</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                        <h3><a href="discPlans.xhtml">Read More About Discussion Plans Here</a></h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </section>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
