<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Methodology</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="combo.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="navmenu.html" -->
        
            <header>
                <h1>Methodology:</h1>
                <h2>An Application of Empathy Development Methodology for Use by Teachers</h2>
            </header>
            <nav>
                <ul id="aboutmenu">
                    <li><a href="#key">Key principles</a></li>
                    <li><a href="#bibther">What is Bibliotherapy and why use it?</a></li>
                    <li><a href="#cbt">What is CBT and DBT?</a></li>
                    <li><a href="#select">Selecting Texts</a></li>
                    <li><a href="#sf">Science Fiction</a></li>
                </ul>
            </nav>
        <div id="defpg">
            <h3><a id="key">Key Principles</a></h3>
            <p>This project proffers that empathy can be developed in literature classrooms through
                the use of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and dialectical-behavioral therapy
                (DBT) in bibliotherapy.</p>
            <h3><a id="bibther">What is Bibliotherapy and Why Use It?</a></h3>
            <p>Bibliotherapy is “the process of using books to help youth and adolescents think
                about, understand, and work through social and emotional issues.” (Miller, 2009)
                That is to say, there is great power in a good book. By discussing literature
                students can actually undergo social and emotional development.</p>
            <p>Bibliotherapy has three primary goals: (1) to illustrate characters and problems so
                that readers recognize that their lived experience is shared by others in order to
                make them feel less isolated. For example a student with a disability who has never
                met another person with a similar disability may feel isolated but by reading texts
                that feature a character that they identify with, they may feel less isolated in
                their experience. (2) To evoke changes in values and attitudes such as empathy and
                tolerance. This can be done by introducing students to perspectives that differ from
                their own; a rural white student who has never met a person of color may struggle to
                empathize with the experience of victims of racial violence, but by conducting
                bibliotherapy using texts with characters of color, the student may better be able
                to recognize their shared humanity and better identify with individuals dissimilar
                to themself. And (3) to induce cognitive changes such as increased critical
                thinking, problem solving, and resourcefulness. This can be done by asking students
                comprehension questions and challenging them to interact deeply with the text,
                perhaps coming up with solutions to problems or inserting themselves into situations
                as they read.</p>
            <p>This process can be done through large or small group discussion but can also be done
                through self-guided reading, writing exercises, or art projects.</p>
            <p>Bibliotherapy is a different way of looking at class discussions that can be
                integrated simply with small steps such as including questions that invite the
                reader’s perspective and invite students to challenge and be challenged by the
                story.</p>
            <h3><a id="cbt">What is CBT and DBT?</a></h3>
            <p>Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a therapeutic treatment that challenges
                unhelpful ways of thinking and behaving to help improve a practitioner’s mood. In
                the simplest terms, sometimes we think things or do things that hurt us, but CBT can
                help us learn new ways of thinking and behaving to circumnavigate these bad habits.
                In this project, the main take away from CBT is the idea of “cognitive distortions”
                or ways of thinking about situations that are stilted by interpretation and not
                based on fact. Bibliotherapy techniques will be used to help students challenge the
                cognitive distortions they observe in the text to help them extrapolate to their own
                ways of thinking. For a complete list of cognitive distortions as defined in this
                project, please visit <a
                    href="http://www.pacwrc.pitt.edu/curriculum/313_MngngImpctTrmtcStrssChldWlfrPrfssnl/hndts/HO15_ThnkngAbtThnkng.pdf"
                    >this link</a> to The Pennsylvania Child Welfare Resource Center. </p>
            <p>Dialectical-behavioral therapy (DBT) is more focused on interpersonal relationships.
                The main take away from DBT is the development of a consistent dialectical
                philosophy, that is to say, developing the idea that there are multiple points of
                view on every issue and topic and that there is no absolute truth which is
                particularly relevant to both literature and empathy. Students who are able to
                recognize that there are multiple points of view will be better capable of
                recognizing the points of view of others.</p>
            <h3><a id="select">Selecting Texts</a></h3>
            <p>The most important thing when it comes to selecting a text to use for this process is
                that the students are comfortable with it. Beyond that, there are different nuances
                in the criteria depending on the specific group goal, but overall the text needs to
                be: on the students’ reading level, be engaging and clear, and demonstrate
                diversity. Often texts are chosen that demonstrate coping skills but because the
                focus of this project is on in classroom application, we are focusing on texts that
                are more general. For your classroom, try to choose texts that feature diverse
                characters and perspectives and do not lock students into a single point of
                view.</p>
            <h3><a href="stories_page.xhtml">Proceed to Step 2</a></h3>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
