<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Discussion Plans</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="combo.css" />
        <script type="text/javascript" src="3_8.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="navmenu.html" -->
        <div id="discplanspg">
            <header>
                <h1>Implementation</h1>
                <h2>An Application of Empathy Development Methodology for Use by Teachers</h2>
            </header>

            <section id="buttonswtext">
                <div id="buttons">
                    <div class="button" id="theory">Theory</div>
                    <div class="button" id="practice">Practical Strategies</div>
                </div>
                <div id="wrapper">
                    <div id="theorytext">
                        <!-- <nav>
                            <ul class="aboutmenu">
                                <li><a href="#discmod">Discussion Models</a></li>
                                <li><a href="#readact">Reading Activities</a></li>
                                <li><a href="#postread">Post-Reading Strategies</a></li>
                            </ul>
                        </nav> -->
                        <div id="theorytexttext"><p>Prater, Johnstun, Dyches, and Johnstun, in their work <i>Using Children's
                                Books as Bibliotherapy for At-Risk Students: A Guide for
                                Teachers</i> lay out a ten-step program for developmental
                            bibliotherapy. The steps are as follows:</p>
                        <ol>
                            <li>Develop rapport, trust, and confidence with the student </li>
                            <li>Identify other school personnel who may assist </li>
                            <li>Solicit support from the student’s parents or guardians </li>
                            <li>Define a specific problem the student is experiencing </li>
                            <li>Create goals and activities to address the problem </li>
                            <li>Research and select books appropriate for the situation </li>
                            <li>Introduce the book to the student </li>
                            <li>Incorporate reading activities, </li>
                            <li>Implement postreading activities </li>
                            <li>Evaluate the effects of bibliotherapy on the student</li>
                        </ol>
                        <p>This resource aims to assist with steps 4-10.</p>
                        <p>The specific problem in this case is developing empathy, though this can
                            be done in conjunction with other goals. It is important to set explicit
                            goals to avoid causing harm to students by leaving things unresolved.
                            (Prater, 2006, 7)</p>
                        <p>Selecting texts can be done in tandem with your school's librarian or
                            counselor if specific issues are needing to be addressed. However, as
                            many teachers are required to choose from a predetermined list of texts,
                            on the next page we explain how to orient canonical texts for
                            bibliotherapeutic purposes.</p>
                        <p>Introducing the book to students is an important step because it allows
                            students to have a stake in the activity. Give students a voice in the
                            work they do, what they read, and they will engage more fully.
                            (Morrison, 53)</p>
                        <p>The next page provides more concrete information regarding reading and
                            post reading activities, but the general idea is that reading alone will
                            not engage students in the discourse that needs to be had. Different
                            activities and discussion models can be applied to keep students
                            interested and learning.</p>
                        <p>To evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention, you may simply reflect
                            on the work students conducted and observe how you could change your
                            proceedured to better meet the students' needs and to engage them more
                            fully. You may also implement the use of pre and post tests and
                            observational assessment metrics if you want your evaluation to be more
                            complete. Regardless of how rigorous your evaluation is, it is important
                            to always reflect on your intervention before repeating in order to
                            improve as an educator.</p></div>
                    </div>
                    <div id="practicetext">
                        <nav>
                            <ul class="aboutmenu">
                                <li><a href="#discmod">Discussion Models</a></li>
                                <li><a href="#readact">Reading Activities</a></li>
                                <li><a href="#postread">Post-Reading Strategies</a></li>
                            </ul>
                        </nav>
                        <div id="practicetexttext"><h3><a id="dismod">Discussion Models</a></h3>
                        <p>One of the key aspects of bibliotherapy is discussion; this can take a
                            myriad of forms, from Think, Pair, Share groups to the Grecian Paideia.
                            Below are instructions for creating a discussion plan to use as the
                            starting point for the conversation as well as a list of discussion
                            models to try in your classroom.</p>
                        <p>When following this methodology, the most important aspect is what kinds
                            of questions get asked.</p>
                        <p>When creating a discussion plan it is important to choose which aspects
                            of the story to highlight and focus on. In our examples, we have chosen
                            to highlight race, class, gender, orientation, and ability all as
                            possible vectors by which to conduct discussion.</p>
                        <p>Focus on questions that challenge students to acknowledge their point of
                            view and to recognize others. At the end of the day, only you know your
                            students. Challenge them, but use your discression when choosing and
                            writing questions.</p>
                        <p>These are the some scaled down questions that are frequently used in
                            developmental bibliotherapy. These questions can be rewritten to suite
                            the reading level of your students:</p>
                        <div class="list">
                            <ul>
                                <li>Are you like any of the story’s characters?</li>
                                <li>Do any of the characters remind you of someone?</li>
                                <li>Who would you like to be in the story?</li>
                                <li>Is there anything you would like to change about the story?</li>
                                <li>How would you change the characters, what happened, or how the
                                    story ended?</li>
                                <li>What is your favorite part of the story?</li>
                                <li>Did anything in the story ever happen to you?</li>
                                <li>What do you think will happen to the characters in this story
                                    tomorrow, in a few weeks, or a year from now?</li>
                            </ul>
                        </div>
                        <h4>Examples:</h4>
                        <p><a href="comet.xhtml">The Comet</a></p>
                        <br />
                        <h3><a id="readact">Reading Activities</a></h3>

                        <br />
                        <h3><a id="postread">Post-Reading Strategies</a></h3>
</div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </section>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
